We have enough discussion about coupling and question and now we would move into another important object
in the concept which is called encapsulation What does encapsulation means.
Encapsulation means hiding the details of how a class is implemented.
You do really.
The other classes should not care about how a specific implementation is in a class all that they would
need to worry about is what is the interface of a specific class.
If a class exposes a well-defined interface then the even though the internal implementation changes
the actually classes might not be affected.
That's what encapsulation helps us to achieve.
We will look at three different approaches and we'll discuss how well data is encapsulated within them.
The approach one is this is a very good scorer class so you have a variable called score and you can
see that in Main what we are doing is creating a new instance of this quarter.
Corner.
We call it scorer and we have directly accessing the values from there so yes things go to that critical
discard arch CORBALLIS for the other approach is to offer getters and setters.
So I'm having getters and setters and then what I'm doing is I'm getting this code and I'm setting this
code to be Scorpius it.
So that's approach too.
So you'd see that I have encapsulated this code in the sense that nobody will be able to directly access
the code will you.
Because I now need to use getters and setters that's good because somebody needs to look.
Nobody can directly change the value of code.
Now they have to go through the gate.
I mean if they want to change the value they have to go through the set method.
That's the only way they can change.
And if I have to access the value then I can go to get scores so that better but an even better approach
would be to say cricket corer score and define a method call for and add this core in here so I know
what I'm doing.
Cricket scores Korea's nuclear scorer and not for.
OK.
The reason why if you're not a cricket follower sometimes I don't really want to create a method.
One two three four five six seven eight nine ten in here.
The only possible score in a cricket on a ball in cricket is one two three four five and six and four
is called a boundary.
So it's kind of considered to be a special thing and I would want to abstract the fact that the four
represents represent four behind this interface.
No you're just saying score don't for the fact that when it's a boundary and four rounds are added is
encapsulated now inside the class itself.
So this is much much better encapsulation because of the logic of how to do before operation is also
moved to the cricket score class class and I can add more operations to this to say in 0 4 if I could
call this a boundary or a sixer or a single double.
So when it's a single I would add one which is a double I would add two.
So all the logic of how to do the score calculations is encapsulated within the class.
If I change this code with let's say I don't want to call the score and something else then I don't
need to touch the beat Daschle classes which I use in this specific case as we discussed in terms of
encapsulation approach three is better than approach 2 which is better than approach 1.
So the push the fact that there is something called a called where the ball is also known not known
to whoever is using the scorer class the addition of the scorer can change without other classes changing.
You can see the complete implant implementation of the encapsulation of cricket scorer in the encapsulation
example.
So you see that now I have scored third fourth quarter and fourth quarter singles 6 6 6 and Prim. score.
So the user of this particular cricket go to class does not know anything about how the implementation
isn't all that it knows is how to use it.
So if a four is it it calls for it if it's singles it it called single it for 66 It's calls 6 and it
calls the printed score at the end.
So this is a very encapsulated so now could get them scoring well encapsulated glass.
So I would recommend to play around with this example as an exercise try and think more about encapsulation
when you are doing any programming of your own.
And in the next video.